From:	dig-comments@list.nist.gov on behalf of Julian White <julian.white@beruku.com>
Sent:	Saturday, April 15, 2023 12:34 AM
To:	dig-comments@nist.gov
Cc:	Alastair Treharne
Subject:	[dig-comments] NIST 800-63-4 feedback
Attachments:	sp800-63-4-suite-ipd-comment-template.xlsx

Follow Up Flag:	Follow up
Flag Status:	Completed


Please find attached our feedback on the latest draft of NIST 800-63 Digital Identity guidelines.

We've provide line-by-line comments in the sheet as requested however we also have the following 
general feedback:

*	One of the stated objectives of the update is to broaden the demographic coverage and provide 
different routes to allow people to get a digital identity. However we're not sure that this is 
reflected sufficiently in the guide as is, the core IAL definitions haven't really changed and whilst 
some other clarifications have been added or updated around referees etc we're not sure that 
the changes made so far will dramatically improve the coverage.
*	The guidance doesn't reflect some of the current services and technology that is available, in 
particular using fraud services to manage risk and thereby allow users to use less than ideal 
sources of evidence or KBV etc as fraud checks seem to be optional (which means they won't 
happen in real life) and if a CSP implements them it doesn't give them any benefit in terms of 
reaching the IAL.
*	There aren't any controls about how KBV should work, which is probably needed since lots of 
services ask poor questions that leave them open to impostors and account takeover
*	There isn't clear performance criteria when using biometric technologies. There is a wide range 
of products on the market that have significant performance differences and if you aren't clear 
that will create an unlevel playing field for the CSPs.
As you mentioned in the document, Alastair and myself contributed and collaborated on the previous 
version of 800-63 with you, and, as previously, if you would like us to give you direct help and support 
again please feel free to contact us at any time.

We have also recently revised the UK guidance to make it more flexible 
(https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/identity-proofing-and-verification-of-an-individual) as 
well as produced guidance how to use a referee for identity checks 
(https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/how-to-accept-a-vouch-as-evidence-of-someones-
identity), which you might find useful. Similarly if you would like us to talk you through how we 
developed that, how we introduced the flexibility or how it works in general we would gladly do so.

Kind regards,

Julian White
Beruku 

Tel: +44 (0) 7973 658957
email: julian.white@beruku.com

--  
To unsubscribe from this group, send email to dig-comments+unsubscribe@list.nist.gov 
  
View this message at https://list.nist.gov/dig-comments 
---  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to DIG-
Comments+unsubscribe@list.nist.gov.
