From:	Mike Hill <mhill@sensipass.com>
Sent:	Friday, April 14, 2023 1:24 PM
To:	dig-comments@nist.gov
Subject:	[dig-comments] Re: NIST Publication 800-63-4 DRAFT Comments

Re: NIST Publication 800-63-4 DRAFT Comments 
 
Dear authors of the NIST Publication 800-63-4, 

I would like to bring to your attention the benefits of using memorized secrets based on identifiable 
interactions in the authentication process. Such an approach provides an extra layer of complexity and 
security compared to traditional passwords, PINs or passphrases. By emphasizing the uniqueness and 
self-recognition of these interactions, the memorized secrets become only recognizable by the 
individual user, thereby adding to the strength of the security. We encourage you to consider these 
points in your publication to enhance the security of authentication systems. 
 
One of the positives of memorized secrets is that they can be only self-recognizable through identifiable 
interactions that only pertain to that individual. 
 
Memorized Secret: (proposed definition): 
 
A type of authenticator comprised of a character string or other contextual input that is solely 
identifiable or memorable by the subscriber, permitting the subscriber to demonstrate something that is 
only significant to their knowledge as part of an authentication process.   
 
Reasoning:  
 
Memorized secrets consisting of interactions can provide much more complexity than typical passwords, 
PINs or passphrases.  This, in turn, can maintain the identity assurance of the memorized secret through 
user involvement without the vulnerabilities and address the availability of emerging human-machine 
input devices to register and provide the interaction where keyboards are unavailable and provide a 
method of inputting a memorized secret for users with physiological limitations. 
 
Very respectfully,
-- 
Michael Hill 
Founder & CEO
------------------------------------------------------------------ 
USA: +1 (202) 412-0821 
IRL: +353 85 8334477
https://calendly.com/sensipass
www.SensiPass.com 
@sensipass 
 
Authenticating people, not just credentials. 
 
This transmission is issued by SensiPass Inc. and/or SensiPass Ltd. This email and the information it 
contains may be legally privileged and/or confidential. It is for the intended recipient only. If an 
addressing or transmission error has misdirected this email, please notify the author by replying to this 
email. If you are not the intended recipient, you may not use, disseminate, alter, print or copy any 
information in or transmitted with this message or deliver to anyone. SensiPass is incorporated and 
registered in the United States and Ireland. 

Registered offices:  
3101 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 240, Arlington, VA, 22201, USA 
Guinness Enterprise Centre, Taylor's Lane, Dublin D08 YE0P, Ireland.   
©2023 SensiPass. All rights reserved.
 
--  
To unsubscribe from this group, send email to dig-comments+unsubscribe@list.nist.gov 
  
View this message at https://list.nist.gov/dig-comments 
---  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to DIG-
Comments+unsubscribe@list.nist.gov.
