From:	dig-comments@list.nist.gov on behalf of ADITYA MITRA 20BCR7009 
<aditya.20bcr7009@vitap.ac.in>
Sent:	Thursday, March 9, 2023 6:14 PM
To:	dig-comments@nist.gov
Subject:	[dig-comments] Concern over Cryptographic Software Authenticator in SP 800-63B-4 
Draft

Sir,
The SP 800-63B-3 stated, "Multi-factor cryptographic software authenticators SHOULD discourage and 
SHALL NOT facilitate the cloning of the secret key onto multiple devices." However, this clause has been 
clearly removed in the SP 800-63B-4 draft, which raises concerns about the exporting and cloning of 
cryptographic secrets. Connected authenticators, on the other hand, are allowed to export the 
cryptographic keys over a wired connection or through an authenticated wireless channel. There has, 
however, been no mention of how the exported secrets are to be processed on the endpoint. It is quite 
possible that the secrets may be compromised post-export. I feel cryptographic software SHOULD NOT 
facilitate the export and cloning of secrets onto other devices. On the other hand, the cryptographic 
computations SHOULD be done on the cryptographic software itself. For Connected Authenticators, only 
the challenge and response and other one-time secrets should only be shared over wired or secure 
channels. 
I would suggest, the statement "External cryptographic authenticators that do not meet the 
requirements of cryptographic hardware authenticators (e.g., that have a mechanism to allow private 
keys to be exported) are also considered to be cryptographic software authenticators" be removed, and 
all types of cryptographic authenticators, both software, hardware, multi-factor, single-factor, SHOULD 
NOT facilitate the export and cloning of private keys.

Aditya Mitra
Cybersecurity Researcher,
AIR Center
VIT-AP University
--  
To unsubscribe from this group, send email to dig-comments+unsubscribe@list.nist.gov 
  
View this message at https://list.nist.gov/dig-comments 
---  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to DIG-
Comments+unsubscribe@list.nist.gov.
