From:	dig-comments@list.nist.gov on behalf of Shannon Roddy <sroddy@gmail.com>
Sent:	Friday, April 14, 2023 8:26 PM
To:	dig-comments@nist.gov
Subject:	[dig-comments] NIST 800-63 Rev 4 open comment period

RE:  NIST 800-63 Draft Revision 4 open comment period

I’m writing in response to the open comment period for the Draft Revision 4 of the NIST 800-63 
standards.  My attention is largely on the 800-63C section of the draft, as it has been the area of 
need that I have been focused on in the recent past and is an area in which I have 15 years 
experience.. 
 
In the last two years specifically, I have had discussions and interactions with a diverse set of 
sectors and organizations, both national and international in scope.  These sectors range from 
those who already presently operate global-scale (inter)federations that have been in production 
in some cases for nearly two decades, to those that do not even have well implemented Single 
Sign-On in their production environments and are starting out with green fields.  Some of these 
sectors see accelerated adoption of federation practices as critical to the success of their 
present-day missions.   
 
My background is primarily in the area of successful Research and Education (R&E) style SAML 
federation at global scale, and my perspectives largely come from that experience.  I’m most 
familiar with the tools, practices, and methods that have been developed in that space, however 
I also have experience with other commercially produced offerings, their customers, and the 
varying degrees of support of open federation standards of those toolsets.  I believe that many 
of the patterns, practices, and standards that are in use in R&E multilateral federations can also 
largely be applied outside of the R&E space.  The finer details and requirements may be 
different, but the patterns and practices translate over equally well in many cases.

At a high level, I believe there are a couple of areas that 800-63C does not address 
comprehensively.  These areas are of immediate concern to some of the organizations I have 
been working with over the last two years, especially in the federal space.  Some of these 
organizations are mandated to follow the FICAM Playbooks & guidance, which references 800-
63 as a supporting standard.  Because 800-63 does not directly address some of these areas of 
immediate concern, it becomes an exercise for the implementer how best to fill the gap.  Two of 
these areas are:

1.	Operating a federation at scale and scaling methods in use in other federations
2.	Practices for interoperability with other existing (inter)national scale federations 

One organization I have been in discussions with had more than 9,000 unique entities that 
would need to participate in their proposed federation.  If one assumes a “full-mesh bilateral 
style” federation, that becomes 81 million unique entity relationships under management.  This 
organization is only one division of their larger overall organization that is US/national in 
scope.  This single organization and their 9,000 entities is already at the scale at which global 
R&E federations operate at (8,881 multilateral entities presently in eduGAIN, and 6,160 entities 
in InCommon).  When taking into account the sibling organizations in the overall federation, the 
complexity grows by at least an order of magnitude.  There are various approaches to these 
types of scaling issues that are already in production in other federations, though I believe these 
are largely not addressed in the current draft revision.  This federal organization is facing 
immediate scaling issues, while lacking guidance on how best to scale.

Another organization I have worked with has an immediate need to federate with international 
partners.  This organization is also mandated to follow the FICAM Playbook, and its supporting 
800-63 standards.  In order to interoperate with their international partners (who are not 
mandated to follow the NIST standards) they will need to develop interoperability standards and 
practices.  In many ways, this immediately at first glance appears like the eduGAIN global 
interfederation from the very outset of the implementation.  This proposed federation would 
initially be composed of multiple nationally-scoped federations, with their own mandates and 
governing bodies, and they must interoperate.  Again, in this case, I believe the guidance they 
have available is incomplete.  It also becomes problematic when the NIST standards are in 
conflict with the other federation standards in the target national federations.

One area of long standing concern is in the area of interoperability when an organization must 
operate in multiple federations due to its mission, and there is a wide divergence between the 
operating practices between these federations.  For instance, a federal agency which must also 
interact with research grant recipients.  The federal agency may be mandated to follow FISMA & 
800-63, and participate in a federally scoped federation, but the researcher exists in an R&E 
federation.  While 800-63 is primarily written and targeted toward federal use cases, the existing 
needs are often not that clearly divided.  NIH will need to federate with researchers and their 
R&E institutions.  NASA will need to federate with commercial launch companies.  The 
Department of Energy will need to federate with national labs.  Boeing will need to federate with 
the Department of Defense.  The Department of Education will need to federate with R&E 
institutions and K-12.  
 
While 800-63 is written with the intention of being scoped only to US Federal use cases, and 
can be more tightly constrained to those proposed use cases, I suspect the reality will not be so 
clearly delineated.  As federation efforts potentially gain traction within the federal space, 
interoperability will become a significant hurdle if efforts and standards bifurcate.  I suspect that 
the multiple sectors I have spoken to with nascent federation efforts, commercial software 
providers, NIST, and the existing production federations and standards bodies will ultimately 
need to work together to harmonize our practices across sectors in the future.  In many ways, I 
see the future of federation efforts to be as core and fundamental as TCP/IP three decades 
ago.  We currently have an ecosystem where there are gaps in support for existing federation 
standards and practices across the various sectors and implementations.  I believe we should 
work to close these gaps, and 800-63 is, ideally, one supporting tool in closing those gaps. 
 
I look forward to the continued evolution of the NIST standards and I appreciate the opportunity 
to provide comments and perspectives.  
--  
To unsubscribe from this group, send email to dig-comments+unsubscribe@list.nist.gov 
  
View this message at https://list.nist.gov/dig-comments 
---  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to DIG-
Comments+unsubscribe@list.nist.gov.
