From:	dig-comments@list.nist.gov on behalf of Robert  Wagner <rwagner@tesla.net>
Sent:	Thursday, February 2, 2023 6:16 AM
To:	dig-comments@nist.gov
Cc:	Joseph Fulmore
Subject:	[dig-comments] 800-63b-4 Table 1 + phishing resistant clarification

Dear NIST;
Table 1 and the Authenticator Descriptions (e.g. section 5.1.4.1 Single-Factor OTP 
Authenticators) need clarifications on whether or not the devices are considered 
"phishing resistant". Forcing the reader to read section 5.2.5 in order to know 
whether or not a particular device seems cumbersome. To alleviate this issue I 
recommend:
1.	Under each device that is not considered "phishing resistant" add a note: 
"NOTE: This authenticator is not considered phishing resistant" e.g. page 
24, after line 77.
2.	Add a footnote to Table 1 and flag authenticators that are susceptible to 
phishing.

Requirement
AAL1
AAL2
AAL3
Permitted 
authenticator type
Memorized Secret1; 
Look-up Secret1; Out-of-
Band1; SF OTP Device1; 
MF OTP Device2; SF 
Crypto Software2; SF 
Crypto Device2; MF 
Crypto Software2; MF 
Crypto Device2
MF Out-ofBand2; MF OTP 
Device2; MF Crypto 
Software2; MF Crypto 
Device2; or Memorized 
Secret1 plus: Lookup 
Secret1, Outof-Band, SF 
OTP Device1, SF Crypto 
Software1, SF Crypto 
Device2
MF Crypto Device2; SF 
Crypto Device2 plus 
Memorized Secret1; 
SF OTP Device1 plus 
MF Crypto Device2 or 
Software; SF OTP 
Device1 plus SF 
Crypto Software1 plus 
Memorized Secret1
1 Not considered phishing resistant
2 Phishing resistant

Unfortunately, a casual look at Table 1 makes one believe they satisfy phishing 
resistant requirements by combining authenticators such as memorized secrets 
and SF OTP devices.  The Permitted Authenticator Types for AAL2/3 (section 4.2.1 
and 4.3.2) also requires clarification. Should all of the authenticator types for 
AAL3 be phishing resistant, or at least one of the approved types?

3.	The document needs to clarify the 'something you have' device. This has 
typically meant something under your control, something you carry with 
you and perhaps store securely when not using it. I have heard mention 
that because your workstation has cryptographic abilities, it is 'something 
you have' and it would count towards MFA. However, one would only have 
their workstation under their control for limited time while at work. 
Anyone could log into their workstation after-hours. So, continuing to use 
ID + password + workstation is not a MFA solution.
Thanks in advance for any clarification you can provide!

Robert Wagner, CISSP
Security Engineer
Dowless & Associates, A Tesla Company
Herndon, VA 20171

--  
To unsubscribe from this group, send email to dig-comments+unsubscribe@list.nist.gov 
  
View this message at https://list.nist.gov/dig-comments 
---  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to DIG-
Comments+unsubscribe@list.nist.gov.
