From:	Anne.Wallwork via DIG-Comments <DIG-Comments@list.nist.gov>
Sent:	Friday, April 21, 2023 1:30 PM
To:	connie.lasalle@nist.gov
Cc:	dig-comments@nist.gov
Subject:	[dig-comments] additional informal comments on Guidelines update

A few post-4/14 deadline thoughts:

Base—add definition of federation protocol?  A protocol is an established set of rules that 
determine how data is transmitted between different devices in the same network. Essentially, it 
allows connected devices to communicate with each other, regardless of any differences in their 
internal processes, structure or design. A federation protocol is a process that allows for the 
conveyance of assertions, authentication attributes, and subscriber attributes across networked 
systems.

Base consider expanding definition of assertion:
“Assertion A statement from a verifier to an RP that contains information about a subscriber.
Assertions may also contain verified attributes that further characterize the subscriber and 
support authorization decisions at the RP.. An assertion includes a federated identifier for 
the subscriber that associates the subscriber with their interactions with the RP over 
multiple authenticated sessions. 

Base 5.3. Tailor and Document Assurance Levels 1375-1376 Clarify that tailoring is an ongoing 
(vs. periodic) process—“Tailoring provides an ongoing process to modify an initially assessed 
assurance level or implement compensating controls based on ongoing detailed impact and risk 
assessments.”  (Cf. 5.4. “Continuously Evaluate and Improve Threat actors adapt, user 
expectations and needs shift, and missions evolve. As such, risk Risk assessments and identity 
solutions are not to be set and forgotten. To maintain pace with the constantly shifting 
environment in which they operate, organizations SHOULD implement a continuous evaluation 
and improvement program that leverages input from people interacting with the identity system. 
These programs SHOULD consider feedback from application performance metrics, threat 
intelligence, fraud analytics, assessments of equity impacts, privacy impact analysis, and user 
inputs.”)

Base add definition of single sign-on  Single sign-on refers to the ability of federation 
processes to enable the subscriber to obtain services from multiple RPs without the need to 
hold or maintain separate authenticators at each RP.



Anne Shere Wallwork
Senior Counselor for Strategic Policy and Innovation
Office of Terrorist Financing and Financial Crimes (TFFC)
U.S. Department of the Treasury
1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW
Washington DC 20220
Mobile: +1 (202) 577-4079 
E-mail: anne.wallwork@treasury.gov 

--  
To unsubscribe from this group, send email to dig-comments+unsubscribe@list.nist.gov 
  
View this message at https://list.nist.gov/dig-comments 
---  
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to DIG-
Comments+unsubscribe@list.nist.gov.
